	The Zodiac was a notorious serial murderer from the greater San Francisc
o are during the 1960’s and 70’s.  The Zodiac was confirmed to have sev
en victims with five murders, and claimed to have killed dozens more.  He i
s most well remembered for threatening to blowup school buses full of child
ren, skillful manipulation of the media and of most interest to us, for his
 taunting of the police and public with letters and ciphers.  
	On July 31, 1969, less than a month after the Zodiac’s attack on Mike 
Mageau and third confirmed murder of Darlene Ferrin, the Zodiac submitted h
is first cipher.  It was sent to the Vallejo Times Herald, the San Francisc
o Chronicle, and the San Francisco Examiner in three equal parts with no ob
vious distinction as to what order they were to be read.  Along with each p
art of the cipher were near identical hand-written letters threatening to k
ill a dozen people in a week-end-long rampage, if his cipher was not printe
d on the front page of the very next newspaper edition.  Each portion of th
e cipher was eventually published, though not all initially on the front pa
ges and not all on the requested date.  
	The combined cipher was 17 characters across, and 24 characters long for
 a total of 408 characters.  Although code breakers from the FBI, NSA, CIA,
 and Naval Intelligence all tried to solve the cipher, it was Donald and Be
ttye Harden, a forty one year old high school history teacher and his wife,
 who finally cracked it.  In addition to some prior knowledge of some basic
 code breaking techniques, Harden was able to solve the cipher by making a 
very insightful and very lucky assumption that the coded message began with
 “I like killing”.  Harden also made a number of other basic assumption
s as well.  Namely that it was a homophonic cipher (one letter being potent
ially represented by many symbols) and that the message read from left to r
ight and top to bottom like a book.  
	The Zodiac’s second cipher was received on November 8th, 1969 by the S
F Chronicle.  The cipher came less than one month after the Zodiac’s fift
h and last confirmed murder, of cab driver Paul Stine.  Contained in the en
velope with the cipher were a greeting card and a bloody piece of Paul Stin
e’s shirt taken from the scene of his murder.  This second cipher was aga
in 17 characters long but only 20 characters long resulting in 340 characte
rs all together (68 characters less than the previous cipher).  In addition
 this new 340 cipher had 63 unique symbols, more than the previous.  The co
mbination of more unique symbols and a shorter message gave this cipher a m
uch higher degree of difficulty.  
	Although the Zodiac sent three more ciphers to the news papers, the thir
d and forth are very short and therefore no conclusive analysis can be done
 on them.  Also, author Robert Graysmith, claimed to have solved the 340 ci
pher.  However, it is our belief that even though it is the best to date, i
t is not a complete nor satisfactory solution.  
